docs/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

**Reqvire** is the lightweight Git-native **Requirements As a Code** framework that transforms how modern engineering teams build software. Seamlessly blending system modeling, requirements management, and AI-assisted development. Reqvire empowers teams to deliver better products faster with complete traceability and intelligent automation.

Experience the future of development where your requirements live alongside your code, evolve with your project, and unlock the full potential of AI-powered engineering—from intelligent requirement synthesis to automated code generation—all within your familiar Git workflow.

Reqvire unlocks:
  - 🚀 **Requirements as Code**: Transform requirements from static documents into living, version-controlled assets that evolve with your codebase
  - ⚡ **Effortless Integration**: Plug seamlessly into your existing workflow with Git branches, pull requests, and CI/CD pipelines—no disruption, just enhancement
  - 🤖 **Smart Automation**: Automatically generates diagrams, traceability matrices, and impact analysis—keeping documentation synchronized with your requirements
  - 🧠 **AI-Ready Context**: Your requirements become high-quality context for AI tools—enabling assisted requirements management and coding where AI understands what needs to be built, where to make changes, and how everything connects

## Reqvire Modeling Language

Reqvire uses a lightweight, opinionated modeling language based on **semi-structured Markdown**.

### Why Markdown Matters

By sticking to a semi-structured Markdown format:
- AI tools don’t need complex parsers or DSL interpreters
- Models can be used as-is by LLMs like ChatGPT, Claude, or private copilots
- Validation and generation become trivial to automate

This makes Reqvire models not only powerful for humans but **highly interoperable with AI systems**, whether embedded in CI/CD, editors, or code review bots.

---

### Key Elements

Each Reqvire model is made up of Markdown files and elements representing:

- **Requirements** – User needs, constraints, and system-level behaviors.
- **System Structure** – Components, modules, and their interconnections.
- **Behaviors** – States, flows, and operations.
- **Traceability Links** – Relations between requirements, architecture, and test cases.
- **Verification Definitions** – Mappings between requirements and their validation/test strategies.

These documents are written using simple conventions, headers, and embedded tags.

---


## AI Compatibility

Reqvire is built to be **AI-friendly from the ground up**.

### Example AI Use Cases

#### 1. Requirement Analysis
LLMs can analyze Markdown-based requirements to identify missing elements, suggest clearer phrasing, propose edge cases, and generate acceptance criteria or verification steps.

#### 2. Architecture Suggestion
By understanding relationships in architecture files, AI can detect inconsistent component relationships, propose modular design improvements, and suggest missing interfaces or dependencies.

#### 3. Traceability & Impact Prediction
AI tools can automatically trace which tests or requirements are impacted by changes, flag affected downstream areas, and summarize model diffs for engineering teams.

#### 4. Test Coverage Assistance
Based on requirements and use cases, AI can recommend missing test scenarios and create verifications based on test criteria extracted from requirements chain.

#### 5. Code Generation Assistance

AI can leverage structured requirements for:
- **Context-Aware Generation**: Understanding the "why" behind every component through Reqvire's traceability structure
- **Specification-Driven Coding**: Generating code directly tied to specific requirements, reducing guesswork or misinterpretation
- **Verification-Backed Validation**: Referring to defined verifications to ensure implementation meets intended behavior
- **Trace-Based Refactoring**: Assisting in propagating requirement changes through the codebase and related artifacts

#### 6. Report Generation

AI can automatically generate traceability reports, summarize system architecture, and prepare documentation for releases or reviews.


### Human in Control — Always

While Reqvire empowers AI tools to act as smart collaborators, the **human engineer remains the system’s captain** — setting direction, making decisions, and approving outcomes.

Reqvire ensures that:
- Every AI-suggested change is traceable and reviewable
- System evolution remains understandable and documented
- AI tooling acts in service of the engineer’s intent, not in place of it

---

## Diagram & Traceability Automation

Reqvire automatically parses structured Markdown to generate:
- **Architecture diagrams** (component hierarchies, interfaces, dependencies)
- **Traceability matrices** linking requirements to architecture, verifications, and tests
- **Impact reports** showing what was changed, and what it affects
- **Requirement flow diagrams** visualizing hierarchical relationships and derivations
- **Verification coverage maps** showing which leaf requirements are verified and how
- **Change propagation analysis** identifying all downstream effects of modifications
- **Compliance matrices** mapping requirements to standards, regulations, or policies
- **Model summary reports** providing overview statistics and health metrics
- **Interactive documentation** with clickable diagrams and searchable content

---

## CI/CD Integration

Reqvire is designed for automation. In typical Git-based workflows, you can:

- **Validate Markdown structure** using static checks
- **Auto-generate diagrams** during CI builds or PRs
- **Generate traceability and change impact reports** for stakeholder review
- **Block PRs** if requirements are incomplete or broken
- **Package models** into versioned documentation releases

Commit message:

Enhance documentation with export formats and CI/CD integration details
- Add Mermaid diagram exports and JSON/CSV export capabilities to automation section
- Clarify HTML documentation generation with interactive features
- Add explicit mention of GitHub Actions/GitLab CI integration
- Document report artifacts as part of release process
- Update requirements.md examples to show architectural decomposition

docs/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

**Reqvire** is the lightweight Git-native **Requirements As a Code** framework that transforms how modern engineering teams build software. Seamlessly blending system modeling, requirements management, and AI-assisted development. Reqvire empowers teams to deliver better products faster with complete traceability and intelligent automation.

Experience the future of development where your requirements live alongside your code, evolve with your project, and unlock the full potential of AI-powered engineering—from intelligent requirement synthesis to automated code generation—all within your familiar Git workflow.

Reqvire unlocks:
  - 🚀 **Requirements as Code**: Transform requirements from static documents into living, version-controlled assets that evolve with your codebase
  - ⚡ **Effortless Integration**: Plug seamlessly into your existing workflow with Git branches, pull requests, and CI/CD pipelines—no disruption, just enhancement
  - 🤖 **Smart Automation**: Automatically generates diagrams, traceability matrices, and impact analysis—keeping documentation synchronized with your requirements
  - 🧠 **AI-Ready Context**: Your requirements become high-quality context for AI tools—enabling assisted requirements management and coding where AI understands what needs to be built, where to make changes, and how everything connects

## Reqvire Modeling Language

Reqvire uses a lightweight, opinionated modeling language based on **semi-structured Markdown**.

### Why Markdown Matters

By sticking to a semi-structured Markdown format:
- AI tools don’t need complex parsers or DSL interpreters
- Models can be used as-is by LLMs like ChatGPT, Claude, or private copilots
- Validation and generation become trivial to automate

This makes Reqvire models not only powerful for humans but **highly interoperable with AI systems**, whether embedded in CI/CD, editors, or code review bots.

---

### Key Elements

Each Reqvire model is made up of Markdown files and elements representing:

- **Requirements** – User needs, constraints, and system-level behaviors.
- **System Structure** – Components, modules, and their interconnections.
- **Behaviors** – States, flows, and operations.
- **Traceability Links** – Relations between requirements, architecture, and test cases.
- **Verification Definitions** – Mappings between requirements and their validation/test strategies.

These documents are written using simple conventions, headers, and embedded tags.

---


## AI Compatibility

Reqvire is built to be **AI-friendly from the ground up**.

### Example AI Use Cases

#### 1. Requirement Analysis
LLMs can analyze Markdown-based requirements to identify missing elements, suggest clearer phrasing, propose edge cases, and generate acceptance criteria or verification steps.

#### 2. Architecture Suggestion
By understanding relationships in architecture files, AI can detect inconsistent component relationships, propose modular design improvements, and suggest missing interfaces or dependencies.

#### 3. Traceability & Impact Prediction
AI tools can automatically trace which tests or requirements are impacted by changes, flag affected downstream areas, and summarize model diffs for engineering teams.

#### 4. Test Coverage Assistance
Based on requirements and use cases, AI can recommend missing test scenarios and create verifications based on test criteria extracted from requirements chain.

#### 5. Code Generation Assistance

AI can leverage structured requirements for:
- **Context-Aware Generation**: Understanding the "why" behind every component through Reqvire's traceability structure
- **Specification-Driven Coding**: Generating code directly tied to specific requirements, reducing guesswork or misinterpretation
- **Verification-Backed Validation**: Referring to defined verifications to ensure implementation meets intended behavior
- **Trace-Based Refactoring**: Assisting in propagating requirement changes through the codebase and related artifacts

#### 6. Report Generation

AI can automatically generate traceability reports, summarize system architecture, and prepare documentation for releases or reviews.


### Human in Control — Always

While Reqvire empowers AI tools to act as smart collaborators, the **human engineer remains the system’s captain** — setting direction, making decisions, and approving outcomes.

Reqvire ensures that:
- Every AI-suggested change is traceable and reviewable
- System evolution remains understandable and documented
- AI tooling acts in service of the engineer’s intent, not in place of it

---

## Diagram & Traceability Automation

Reqvire automatically parses structured Markdown to generate:
- **Architecture diagrams** (component hierarchies, interfaces, dependencies)
- **Traceability matrices** linking requirements to architecture, verifications, and tests
- **Impact reports** showing what was changed, and what it affects
- **Requirement flow diagrams** visualizing hierarchical relationships and derivations
- **Verification coverage maps** showing which leaf requirements are verified and how
- **Change propagation analysis** identifying all downstream effects of modifications
- **Compliance matrices** mapping requirements to standards, regulations, or policies
- **Model summary reports** providing overview statistics and health metrics
- **Interactive HTML documentation** with clickable diagrams and searchable content
- **Mermaid diagram exports** for integration with documentation platforms
- **JSON/CSV exports** for integration with external tools and dashboards

---

## CI/CD Integration

Reqvire is designed for automation. In typical Git-based workflows, you can:

- **Validate Markdown structure** using static checks
- **Auto-generate diagrams** during CI builds or PRs
- **Generate traceability and change impact reports** for stakeholder review
- **Block PRs** if requirements are incomplete or broken
- **Package models** into versioned documentation releases
- **Integrate with GitHub Actions/GitLab CI** for automated validation
- **Generate reports** that become part of your release artifacts
