docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Home
---

## Get Started

**Reqvire** is the lightweight Git-native **Requirements As Code** framework that transforms how modern engineering teams build software. Seamlessly blending system modeling, requirements management, and AI-assisted development. Reqvire empowers teams to deliver better products faster with complete traceability and intelligent automation.

Experience the future of development where your requirements live alongside your code, evolve with your project, and unlock the full potential of AI-powered engineering—from intelligent requirement synthesis to automated code generation—all within your familiar Git workflow.

Reqvire unlocks:
  - 🚀 **Requirements as Code**: Transform requirements from static documents into living, version-controlled assets that evolve with your codebase
  - ⚡ **Effortless Integration**: Plug seamlessly into your existing workflow with Git branches, pull requests, and CI/CD pipelines—no disruption, just enhancement
  - 🤖 **Smart Automation**: Reqvire handles diagram generation, traceability matrices, and impact analysis automatically—your requirements become high-quality context for AI tools
  - 🧠 **AI-Ready Architecture**: Optimal context that enables AI assisted requirements management and assisted coding—AI understands what needs to be built, where to make changes, and how everything connects


## Table of Contents

- [About](./about.md)
  - [Requirements](./requirements.md)
  - [Verifications](./verifications.md)    
  - [User Guide](./user_guide.md)
    - [Commands and Configuration](./user_guide.md#basic-commands)
    - [Working with Requirements](./user_guide.md#working-with-requirements)
    - [Validation and Formatting](./user_guide.md#validation)
    - [Traceability](./user_guide.md#traceability)
    - [GitHub Integration](./user_guide.md#github-integration)

---

## Key Benefits

- **Familiar Workflow**: Use Git-based processes for requirements management
- **Traceability**: Automatically track relationships between requirements and code
- **Visualization**: Generate diagrams and matrices from your model
- **Collaboration**: Review changes to requirements just like code changes
- **CI/CD Integration**: Automate validation, formatting, and documentation generation
- **Change Impact Analysis**: Understand how changes affect related requirements

## GitHub Integration

The [GitHub Integration](./user_guide.md#github-integration) section in the User Guide provides detailed instructions on:

- Setting up GitHub Actions for automated validation and diagram generation
- Using PR comment commands for change impact analysis
- Integrating with CI/CD pipelines
- Release automation

---

Commit message:

Refine feature descriptions for Smart Automation and AI-Ready Context
Update Smart Automation to focus on documentation synchronization benefit. Change AI-Ready Architecture to AI-Ready Context with clearer messaging about AI tool integration.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: Home
---

## Get Started

**Reqvire** is the lightweight Git-native **Requirements As Code** framework that transforms how modern engineering teams build software. Seamlessly blending system modeling, requirements management, and AI-assisted development. Reqvire empowers teams to deliver better products faster with complete traceability and intelligent automation.

Experience the future of development where your requirements live alongside your code, evolve with your project, and unlock the full potential of AI-powered engineering—from intelligent requirement synthesis to automated code generation—all within your familiar Git workflow.

Reqvire unlocks:
  - 🚀 **Requirements as Code**: Transform requirements from static documents into living, version-controlled assets that evolve with your codebase
  - ⚡ **Effortless Integration**: Plug seamlessly into your existing workflow with Git branches, pull requests, and CI/CD pipelines—no disruption, just enhancement
  - 🤖 **Smart Automation**: Automatically generates diagrams, traceability matrices, and impact analysis—keeping documentation synchronized with your requirements
  - 🧠 **AI-Ready Context**: Your requirements become high-quality context for AI tools—enabling assisted requirements management and coding where AI understands what needs to be built, where to make changes, and how everything connects


## Table of Contents

- [About](./about.md)
  - [Requirements](./requirements.md)
  - [Verifications](./verifications.md)    
  - [User Guide](./user_guide.md)
    - [Commands and Configuration](./user_guide.md#basic-commands)
    - [Working with Requirements](./user_guide.md#working-with-requirements)
    - [Validation and Formatting](./user_guide.md#validation)
    - [Traceability](./user_guide.md#traceability)
    - [GitHub Integration](./user_guide.md#github-integration)

## Key Benefits

- **Familiar Workflow**: Use Git-based processes for requirements management
- **Traceability**: Automatically track relationships between requirements and code
- **Visualization**: Generate diagrams and matrices from your model
- **Collaboration**: Review changes to requirements just like code changes
- **CI/CD Integration**: Automate validation, formatting, and documentation generation
- **Change Impact Analysis**: Understand how changes affect related requirements

## GitHub Integration

The [GitHub Integration](./user_guide.md#github-integration) section in the User Guide provides detailed instructions on:

- Setting up GitHub Actions for automated validation and diagram generation
- Using PR comment commands for change impact analysis
- Integrating with CI/CD pipelines
- Release automation
