docs/user_guide.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: User Guide
---

This user guide provides detailed instructions on how to use Reqvire effectively.

## Table of Contents

- [Basic Commands](#basic-commands)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Working with Requirements](#working-with-requirements)
- [Validation](#validation)
- [Formatting](#formatting)
- [Generating Documentation](#generating-documentation)
- [Traceability](#traceability)
- [Sections Summary](#sections-summary)
- [Model Commands](#model-commands)
- [Change Impact Report](#change-impact-report)
- [Diagrams](#diagrams)
- [GitHub Integration](#github-integration)
  - [GitHub Actions](#github-actions)
  - [GitHub Issue Comment Commands](#github-issue-comment-commands)

## Basic Commands

Reqvire offers several core commands for managing your requirements:

### Help

View the available commands and options:

```bash
reqvire --help
```

### Version

Display the current version:

```bash
reqvire --version
```

## Configuration

Reqvire uses a YAML configuration file to customize its behavior.

### Default Configuration File

By default, Reqvire looks for configuration in the following files (in order):
- `reqvire.yaml`
- `reqvire.yml`
- `.reqvire.yaml`
- `.reqvire.yml`

### Custom Configuration

To use a custom configuration file:

```bash
reqvire -c path/to/custom-config.yaml
```

### Configuration Options

Here's an example of a Reqvire configuration file:

```yaml
  # Path to the user requirements root folder
  user_requirements_root_folder: "specifications"
  
  # Glob patterns to exclude from requirements processing
  excluded_filename_patterns:
    - "Usecases.md"
    - "Logical*.md"
    - "Physical*.md"
    - "TODO.md"
    - "tests/**"
    - "src/**"            

style:
  # Theme for HTML output (default, dark, light)
  theme: "default"
  
  # Maximum width for HTML output
  max_width: 1200
  
  # Optional path to custom CSS file
  # custom_css: "path/to/custom.css"
  
  # Diagram direction (TD for top-down, LR for left-to-right)
  diagram_direction: "LR"
  
  # If diagrams click links should be blobs to work from GitHub console
  diagrams_with_blobs: false  
```

## Working with Requirements

Reqvire is designed to work with a structured requirements hierarchy in Markdown files.

### Folder Structure

A typical Reqvire project structure looks like this:

```
project/
├── specifications/
│   ├── UserRequirements.md
│   ├── MissionRequirements.md
│   ├── SystemRequirements/
│       └── Requirements.md
└── reqvire.yaml
```

### Requirements and general Markdown files format

Read specifications in [SpecificationsRequirements.md](https://github.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/blob/main/specifications/SpecificationsRequirements.md)


## Validation

Any functional require command that needs to parse model will as a first step perform model validation and report any errors found.
Errors must be fixed before command can execute.

## Formatting

Formatting helps maintain consistent formatting and style.

### Run Formatting

Apply automatic fixes to formatting issues:

```bash
reqvire format
```

### Dry Run

Preview formatting changes without applying them:

```bash
reqvire format --dry-run
```

## Traceability

Track relationships between requirements and verifications using traceability features.

### Generate Verification Traces

```bash
reqvire verifications traces
```

This generates upward trace trees from verifications to root requirements, showing how verifications link to requirements and their parent chains. Output is in Markdown format with Mermaid diagrams by default.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate verification traces in Markdown format with Mermaid diagrams (default)
reqvire verifications traces

# Generate verification traces in JSON format
reqvire verifications traces --json
```

#### Filtering Options

You can filter the verification traces using various criteria:

```bash
# Filter by specific verification ID
reqvire verifications traces --filter-id="test-auth-001"

# Filter by verification name pattern (regex)
reqvire verifications traces --filter-name="Authentication.*"

# Filter by verification type
reqvire verifications traces --filter-type="test-verification"

# Combine multiple filters (AND logic)
reqvire verifications traces --filter-type="test-verification" --filter-name="Login.*" --json
```

Supported verification types: `test-verification`, `analysis-verification`, `inspection-verification`, `demonstration-verification`

#### Relative Link Generation

By default, verification traces generate links relative to the directory where reqvire was executed. You can specify a different base folder for relative links:

```bash
# Generate traces with links relative to a specific folder
reqvire verifications traces --from-folder="docs/specs"

# This makes generated links relative to docs/specs instead of the current directory,
# useful when the output will be placed in a different location
```

### Generate Verification Matrix

```bash
reqvire verifications matrix
```

This generates a traceability matrix showing verification coverage across all requirements.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate verification matrix in SVG format
reqvire verifications matrix --svg > matrix.svg

# Generate verification matrix in JSON format
reqvire verifications matrix --json
```

The matrix implements the **verification roll-up strategy** - a requirement at any level is marked as verified if ALL its child requirements are verified, with verification status rolling up from leaf requirements through the entire parent chain to the root.

#### Example Verification Matrix

![Verification Traceability Matrix](assets/images/verifications_matrix.png)

*Example traceability matrix showing verification coverage and roll-up strategy. Requirements are color-coded by verification status, with verification rolling up from leaf requirements to parent requirements.*

## Sections Summary

Generate a summary of file sections and their content without individual elements.

### Generate Sections Summary

```bash
reqvire model section-summary
```

This generates a summary showing files, sections, and section content without listing individual requirements or verifications.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate sections summary in text format (default)
reqvire model section-summary

# Generate sections summary in JSON format
reqvire model section-summary --json
```

#### Filtering Options

You can filter the output using various criteria:

```bash
# Filter by file pattern
reqvire model section-summary --filter-file="specifications/*.md"

# Filter by section name pattern
reqvire model section-summary --filter-section="System*"

# Filter by content containing specific text
reqvire model section-summary --filter-content="MUST"

# Combine multiple filters
reqvire model section-summary --filter-file="specifications/*.md" --filter-section="System*" --json
```

## Model Commands

Commands for generating model overviews and summaries.

### Model Summary

Generate a comprehensive summary of the entire requirements model.

```bash
reqvire model summary
```

This generates a summary showing the complete structure of your requirements model, including all files, sections, requirements, and verifications.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate model summary in text format (default)
reqvire model summary

# Generate model summary in JSON format
reqvire model summary --json
```

### Model Index

Generate an index of all requirements and verifications in the model.

```bash
reqvire model index
```

This generates an index listing all requirements and verifications, outputting directly to the console. This is useful for getting a quick overview of all elements in your model or for piping into other tools.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate model index in text format (default)
reqvire model index

# Generate model index in JSON format for programmatic processing
reqvire model index --json
```

The output is written to stdout, making it easy to redirect to a file or pipe to other commands:

```bash
# Save index to a file
reqvire model index > index.txt

# Save JSON index to a file
reqvire model index --json > index.json

# Process with other tools
reqvire model index --json | jq '.requirements | length'
```

## Change Impact Report

Generates change impact report comparing current git HEAD with a previous commit.

### Generate Change Impact Report

```bash
reqvire change-impact
```

This generates a report showing how changes affect related requirements. By default, it compares with HEAD~1 (the previous commit).

#### Options

```bash
# Use default comparison with HEAD~1
reqvire change-impact

# Compare with a specific commit (hash or reference)
reqvire change-impact --git-commit=a1b2c3d4

# Output in JSON format for integration with other tools
reqvire change-impact --json
```

## Generating Documentation

Reqvire can generate HTML documentation from your Markdown files.

### Convert to HTML

```bash
reqvire html --output output_folder
```

This creates HTML files with navigation, properly formatted requirements, and interactive diagrams.


## Diagrams

Reqvire can automatically generate diagrams from your requirements model.

### Generate Diagrams

```bash
reqvire generate-diagrams
```

This creates Mermaid diagrams within your requirements files.

### Remove Diagrams

```bash
reqvire remove-diagrams
```

This removes Mermaid diagrams within your requirements files. It is suggested to remove diagrams before using AI/LLM-s to reason about model to reduce context lenght.


## GitHub Integration

Reqvire integrates with GitHub workflows to automate various tasks and provide additional functionality during pull requests and regular development.

### GitHub Actions

Reqvire includes several GitHub Actions workflows that can be used in your repository. You can easily install Reqvire in any GitHub Actions workflow using this oneliner:

```yaml
- name: Install Reqvire
  run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

#### PR Validation

The PR validation workflow runs automatically on every pull request to validate your requirements model:

```yaml
name: Validate Requirements on PR

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main
    types: [opened, synchronize, reopened]  # Trigger on PR creation, updates, and reopening


jobs:
  validate:
    name: Validate Requirements
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
        
      - name: Validate requirements and generate report
        id: validate
        continue-on-error: true
        run: |
          mkdir -p reports
          reqvire validate | tee reports/validation_report.txt

      - name: Upload Validation Report if validation failed
        if: failure()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with:
          name: reqvire-validation-report
          path: reports/validation_report.txt          
```

#### Automated Diagram Generation

This workflow automatically generates and commits updated diagrams when pull requests are merged to the main branch:

```yaml
name: Generate Diagrams and Traces SVG on PR Merge

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [closed]
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  generate-diagrams:
    if: github.event.pull_request.merged == true
    name: Generate and Commit Diagrams
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    
    permissions:
      contents: write  # Required to commit to the repository
    
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: main  # Checkout the default branch (change if needed)
          fetch-depth: 0  # Get full history for proper Git operations
      
      
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
            
      - name: Configure Git
        run: |
          git config --global user.name "GitHub Action"
          git config --global user.email "actions@github.com"
      
      - name: Generate Diagrams
        run: |
          reqvire generate-diagrams
      
      - name: Generate verification matrix svg
        run: |
          reqvire verifications matrix --svg > specifications/matrix.svg
                
      - name: Check for Changes
        id: check_changes
        run: |
          if [[ -n "$(git status --porcelain)" ]]; then
            echo "HAS_CHANGES=true" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          else
            echo "HAS_CHANGES=false" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          fi
      
      - name: Commit and Push Changes
        if: env.HAS_CHANGES == 'true'
        run: |
          git add -A
          git commit -m "Auto-generate diagrams after PR merge to main"
          git push origin main # Change if needed
```

### GitHub Issue Comment Commands

Reqvire supports command-driven operations through GitHub issue comments. These commands can be used in pull request discussions to trigger specific Reqvire operations.

#### Available Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/reqvire impact` | Triggers change impact analysis |

#### Setup Example

Here's how to set up the comment commands in your workflow:

```yaml
name: Reqvire PR Commands

on:
  issue_comment:
    types: [created]

jobs:
  run-reqvire:
    if: |
      github.event.issue.pull_request != null &&
      (
        contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire impact') ||
        contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire verifications traces')
      )
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       
    permissions:
      pull-requests: write
      issues: write
      contents: read
      
    
    steps:
      - name: Checkout PR Branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0
      
      - name: React to trigger comment with
        uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v3
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          comment-id: ${{ github.event.comment.id }}
          reactions: '+1'
          
      - name: Checkout PR source branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
                    
      - name: Get PR Head Ref using gh
        id: get_pr_head
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          HEAD_REF=$(gh pr view ${{ github.event.issue.number }} --json headRefName --jq '.headRefName')
          echo "Using PR head ref: $HEAD_REF"
          echo "HEAD_REF=$HEAD_REF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
              
      - name: Checkout PR source branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: ${{ env.HEAD_REF }}
          fetch-depth: 0  # needed for full commit history
              
      - name: Get Base Branch from PR using gh
        id: get_pr_base
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          BASE_BRANCH=$(gh pr view ${{ github.event.issue.number }} --json baseRefName --jq '.baseRefName')
          echo "Using base branch: $BASE_BRANCH"
          echo "BASE_BRANCH=$BASE_BRANCH" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          
      - name: Compute merge base commit
        id: base_commit
        run: |
          git fetch origin "$BASE_BRANCH"
          BASE_COMMIT=$(git merge-base origin/"$BASE_BRANCH" HEAD)
          echo "Base commit: $BASE_COMMIT"
          echo "BASE_COMMIT=$BASE_COMMIT" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Ensure PR branch remains checked out
        run: |
          git checkout ${{ github.event.issue.pull_request.head.ref }}
         
                          
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
      
      - name: Run Reqvire Impact (if triggered)
        if: contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire impact')
        id: run_impact
        run: |
          OUTPUT=$(reqvire change-impact --git-commit "$BASE_COMMIT" 2>&1 || echo "⚠️ reqvire impact failed.")
          echo "REQVIRE_OUTPUT<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "$OUTPUT" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Run Reqvire Verification Traces (if triggered)
        if: contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire verifications traces')
        id: run_traces
        run: |
          OUTPUT=$(reqvire verifications traces || echo "⚠️ reqvire verifications traces failed.")
          echo "REQVIRE_OUTPUT<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "$OUTPUT" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          
      - name: Comment on PR with result
        uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v3
        with:
          issue-number: ${{ github.event.issue.number }}
          body: |
            ${{ env.REQVIRE_OUTPUT }}            
```

These commands provide valuable insights during the pull request review process, helping reviewers understand the impact of changes on the requirements model.

Commit message:

Remove --json flag from model index command documentation

docs/user_guide.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: User Guide
---

This user guide provides detailed instructions on how to use Reqvire effectively.

## Table of Contents

- [Basic Commands](#basic-commands)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Working with Requirements](#working-with-requirements)
- [Validation](#validation)
- [Formatting](#formatting)
- [Generating Documentation](#generating-documentation)
- [Traceability](#traceability)
- [Sections Summary](#sections-summary)
- [Model Commands](#model-commands)
- [Change Impact Report](#change-impact-report)
- [Diagrams](#diagrams)
- [GitHub Integration](#github-integration)
  - [GitHub Actions](#github-actions)
  - [GitHub Issue Comment Commands](#github-issue-comment-commands)

## Basic Commands

Reqvire offers several core commands for managing your requirements:

### Help

View the available commands and options:

```bash
reqvire --help
```

### Version

Display the current version:

```bash
reqvire --version
```

## Configuration

Reqvire uses a YAML configuration file to customize its behavior.

### Default Configuration File

By default, Reqvire looks for configuration in the following files (in order):
- `reqvire.yaml`
- `reqvire.yml`
- `.reqvire.yaml`
- `.reqvire.yml`

### Custom Configuration

To use a custom configuration file:

```bash
reqvire -c path/to/custom-config.yaml
```

### Configuration Options

Here's an example of a Reqvire configuration file:

```yaml
  # Path to the user requirements root folder
  user_requirements_root_folder: "specifications"
  
  # Glob patterns to exclude from requirements processing
  excluded_filename_patterns:
    - "Usecases.md"
    - "Logical*.md"
    - "Physical*.md"
    - "TODO.md"
    - "tests/**"
    - "src/**"            

style:
  # Theme for HTML output (default, dark, light)
  theme: "default"
  
  # Maximum width for HTML output
  max_width: 1200
  
  # Optional path to custom CSS file
  # custom_css: "path/to/custom.css"
  
  # Diagram direction (TD for top-down, LR for left-to-right)
  diagram_direction: "LR"
  
  # If diagrams click links should be blobs to work from GitHub console
  diagrams_with_blobs: false  
```

## Working with Requirements

Reqvire is designed to work with a structured requirements hierarchy in Markdown files.

### Folder Structure

A typical Reqvire project structure looks like this:

```
project/
├── specifications/
│   ├── UserRequirements.md
│   ├── MissionRequirements.md
│   ├── SystemRequirements/
│       └── Requirements.md
└── reqvire.yaml
```

### Requirements and general Markdown files format

Read specifications in [SpecificationsRequirements.md](https://github.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/blob/main/specifications/SpecificationsRequirements.md)


## Validation

Any functional require command that needs to parse model will as a first step perform model validation and report any errors found.
Errors must be fixed before command can execute.

## Formatting

Formatting helps maintain consistent formatting and style.

### Run Formatting

Apply automatic fixes to formatting issues:

```bash
reqvire format
```

### Dry Run

Preview formatting changes without applying them:

```bash
reqvire format --dry-run
```

## Traceability

Track relationships between requirements and verifications using traceability features.

### Generate Verification Traces

```bash
reqvire verifications traces
```

This generates upward trace trees from verifications to root requirements, showing how verifications link to requirements and their parent chains. Output is in Markdown format with Mermaid diagrams by default.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate verification traces in Markdown format with Mermaid diagrams (default)
reqvire verifications traces

# Generate verification traces in JSON format
reqvire verifications traces --json
```

#### Filtering Options

You can filter the verification traces using various criteria:

```bash
# Filter by specific verification ID
reqvire verifications traces --filter-id="test-auth-001"

# Filter by verification name pattern (regex)
reqvire verifications traces --filter-name="Authentication.*"

# Filter by verification type
reqvire verifications traces --filter-type="test-verification"

# Combine multiple filters (AND logic)
reqvire verifications traces --filter-type="test-verification" --filter-name="Login.*" --json
```

Supported verification types: `test-verification`, `analysis-verification`, `inspection-verification`, `demonstration-verification`

#### Relative Link Generation

By default, verification traces generate links relative to the directory where reqvire was executed. You can specify a different base folder for relative links:

```bash
# Generate traces with links relative to a specific folder
reqvire verifications traces --from-folder="docs/specs"

# This makes generated links relative to docs/specs instead of the current directory,
# useful when the output will be placed in a different location
```

### Generate Verification Matrix

```bash
reqvire verifications matrix
```

This generates a traceability matrix showing verification coverage across all requirements.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate verification matrix in SVG format
reqvire verifications matrix --svg > matrix.svg

# Generate verification matrix in JSON format
reqvire verifications matrix --json
```

The matrix implements the **verification roll-up strategy** - a requirement at any level is marked as verified if ALL its child requirements are verified, with verification status rolling up from leaf requirements through the entire parent chain to the root.

#### Example Verification Matrix

![Verification Traceability Matrix](assets/images/verifications_matrix.png)

*Example traceability matrix showing verification coverage and roll-up strategy. Requirements are color-coded by verification status, with verification rolling up from leaf requirements to parent requirements.*

## Sections Summary

Generate a summary of file sections and their content without individual elements.

### Generate Sections Summary

```bash
reqvire model section-summary
```

This generates a summary showing files, sections, and section content without listing individual requirements or verifications.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate sections summary in text format (default)
reqvire model section-summary

# Generate sections summary in JSON format
reqvire model section-summary --json
```

#### Filtering Options

You can filter the output using various criteria:

```bash
# Filter by file pattern
reqvire model section-summary --filter-file="specifications/*.md"

# Filter by section name pattern
reqvire model section-summary --filter-section="System*"

# Filter by content containing specific text
reqvire model section-summary --filter-content="MUST"

# Combine multiple filters
reqvire model section-summary --filter-file="specifications/*.md" --filter-section="System*" --json
```

## Model Commands

Commands for generating model overviews and summaries.

### Model Summary

Generate a comprehensive summary of the entire requirements model.

```bash
reqvire model summary
```

This generates a summary showing the complete structure of your requirements model, including all files, sections, requirements, and verifications.

#### Output Format Options

```bash
# Generate model summary in text format (default)
reqvire model summary

# Generate model summary in JSON format
reqvire model summary --json
```

### Model Index

Generate an index of all requirements and verifications in the model.

```bash
reqvire model index
```

This generates an index listing all requirements and verifications, outputting directly to the console. This is useful for HTML export - if saved as index.md, it will become index.html.

The output is written to stdout, making it easy to redirect to a file:

```bash
# Save index to a file
reqvire model index > index.md
```

## Change Impact Report

Generates change impact report comparing current git HEAD with a previous commit.

### Generate Change Impact Report

```bash
reqvire change-impact
```

This generates a report showing how changes affect related requirements. By default, it compares with HEAD~1 (the previous commit).

#### Options

```bash
# Use default comparison with HEAD~1
reqvire change-impact

# Compare with a specific commit (hash or reference)
reqvire change-impact --git-commit=a1b2c3d4

# Output in JSON format for integration with other tools
reqvire change-impact --json
```

## Generating Documentation

Reqvire can generate HTML documentation from your Markdown files.

### Convert to HTML

```bash
reqvire html --output output_folder
```

This creates HTML files with navigation, properly formatted requirements, and interactive diagrams.


## Diagrams

Reqvire can automatically generate diagrams from your requirements model.

### Generate Diagrams

```bash
reqvire generate-diagrams
```

This creates Mermaid diagrams within your requirements files.

### Remove Diagrams

```bash
reqvire remove-diagrams
```

This removes Mermaid diagrams within your requirements files. It is suggested to remove diagrams before using AI/LLM-s to reason about model to reduce context lenght.


## GitHub Integration

Reqvire integrates with GitHub workflows to automate various tasks and provide additional functionality during pull requests and regular development.

### GitHub Actions

Reqvire includes several GitHub Actions workflows that can be used in your repository. You can easily install Reqvire in any GitHub Actions workflow using this oneliner:

```yaml
- name: Install Reqvire
  run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

#### PR Validation

The PR validation workflow runs automatically on every pull request to validate your requirements model:

```yaml
name: Validate Requirements on PR

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main
    types: [opened, synchronize, reopened]  # Trigger on PR creation, updates, and reopening


jobs:
  validate:
    name: Validate Requirements
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
        
      - name: Validate requirements and generate report
        id: validate
        continue-on-error: true
        run: |
          mkdir -p reports
          reqvire validate | tee reports/validation_report.txt

      - name: Upload Validation Report if validation failed
        if: failure()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with:
          name: reqvire-validation-report
          path: reports/validation_report.txt          
```

#### Automated Diagram Generation

This workflow automatically generates and commits updated diagrams when pull requests are merged to the main branch:

```yaml
name: Generate Diagrams and Traces SVG on PR Merge

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [closed]
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  generate-diagrams:
    if: github.event.pull_request.merged == true
    name: Generate and Commit Diagrams
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    
    permissions:
      contents: write  # Required to commit to the repository
    
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: main  # Checkout the default branch (change if needed)
          fetch-depth: 0  # Get full history for proper Git operations
      
      
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
            
      - name: Configure Git
        run: |
          git config --global user.name "GitHub Action"
          git config --global user.email "actions@github.com"
      
      - name: Generate Diagrams
        run: |
          reqvire generate-diagrams
      
      - name: Generate verification matrix svg
        run: |
          reqvire verifications matrix --svg > specifications/matrix.svg
                
      - name: Check for Changes
        id: check_changes
        run: |
          if [[ -n "$(git status --porcelain)" ]]; then
            echo "HAS_CHANGES=true" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          else
            echo "HAS_CHANGES=false" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          fi
      
      - name: Commit and Push Changes
        if: env.HAS_CHANGES == 'true'
        run: |
          git add -A
          git commit -m "Auto-generate diagrams after PR merge to main"
          git push origin main # Change if needed
```

### GitHub Issue Comment Commands

Reqvire supports command-driven operations through GitHub issue comments. These commands can be used in pull request discussions to trigger specific Reqvire operations.

#### Available Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/reqvire impact` | Triggers change impact analysis |

#### Setup Example

Here's how to set up the comment commands in your workflow:

```yaml
name: Reqvire PR Commands

on:
  issue_comment:
    types: [created]

jobs:
  run-reqvire:
    if: |
      github.event.issue.pull_request != null &&
      (
        contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire impact') ||
        contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire verifications traces')
      )
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       
    permissions:
      pull-requests: write
      issues: write
      contents: read
      
    
    steps:
      - name: Checkout PR Branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0
      
      - name: React to trigger comment with
        uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v3
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          comment-id: ${{ github.event.comment.id }}
          reactions: '+1'
          
      - name: Checkout PR source branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
                    
      - name: Get PR Head Ref using gh
        id: get_pr_head
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          HEAD_REF=$(gh pr view ${{ github.event.issue.number }} --json headRefName --jq '.headRefName')
          echo "Using PR head ref: $HEAD_REF"
          echo "HEAD_REF=$HEAD_REF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
              
      - name: Checkout PR source branch
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: ${{ env.HEAD_REF }}
          fetch-depth: 0  # needed for full commit history
              
      - name: Get Base Branch from PR using gh
        id: get_pr_base
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          BASE_BRANCH=$(gh pr view ${{ github.event.issue.number }} --json baseRefName --jq '.baseRefName')
          echo "Using base branch: $BASE_BRANCH"
          echo "BASE_BRANCH=$BASE_BRANCH" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          
      - name: Compute merge base commit
        id: base_commit
        run: |
          git fetch origin "$BASE_BRANCH"
          BASE_COMMIT=$(git merge-base origin/"$BASE_BRANCH" HEAD)
          echo "Base commit: $BASE_COMMIT"
          echo "BASE_COMMIT=$BASE_COMMIT" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Ensure PR branch remains checked out
        run: |
          git checkout ${{ github.event.issue.pull_request.head.ref }}
         
                          
      - name: Install Reqvire
        run: curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reqvire-org/reqvire/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
      
      - name: Run Reqvire Impact (if triggered)
        if: contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire impact')
        id: run_impact
        run: |
          OUTPUT=$(reqvire change-impact --git-commit "$BASE_COMMIT" 2>&1 || echo "⚠️ reqvire impact failed.")
          echo "REQVIRE_OUTPUT<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "$OUTPUT" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Run Reqvire Verification Traces (if triggered)
        if: contains(github.event.comment.body, '/reqvire verifications traces')
        id: run_traces
        run: |
          OUTPUT=$(reqvire verifications traces || echo "⚠️ reqvire verifications traces failed.")
          echo "REQVIRE_OUTPUT<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "$OUTPUT" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
          
      - name: Comment on PR with result
        uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v3
        with:
          issue-number: ${{ github.event.issue.number }}
          body: |
            ${{ env.REQVIRE_OUTPUT }}            
```

These commands provide valuable insights during the pull request review process, helping reviewers understand the impact of changes on the requirements model.
