docs/verifications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Verifications
---

## Conceptual Overview

In Reqvire, **verification** is the process of confirming that a system or its components meet specified **requirements**. Verification ensures that the system has been **built right**, checking whether it conforms to the defined functional and non-functional requirements at each level of system decomposition.

Verification activities are integrated into the **requirements structure**, maintaining clear **traceability** between requirements and their associated **verification methods** and **test artifacts**.

## Verification Element Types

Reqvire supports several verification element types that align with standard systems engineering verification methods:

### Primary Verification Types
- **verification** - Default verification through testing (equivalent to test-verification)
- **test-verification** - Formal testing with documented test procedures and expected outcomes
- **analysis-verification** - Verification through systematic analysis of documentation or code without physical testing
- **inspection-verification** - Verification through formal examination of documentation, code, or physical components
- **demonstration-verification** - Verification through showing functionality in an operational-like environment

### SatisfiedBy Requirements by Type
- **test-verification**: MUST have `satisfiedBy` relations pointing to actual test implementations
- **analysis-verification, inspection-verification, demonstration-verification**: Do NOT require `satisfiedBy` relations (considered satisfied by default)
- **trace relations**: Always allowed for any verification type

## Coverage Philosophy

### Leaf Requirements Focus
Reqvire's verification coverage focuses on **leaf requirements** - requirements that do not have forward relations to other requirements. These represent the actual testable functionality.

**Coverage Rules:**
- **Leaf requirements** MUST be verified - these represent the actual testable functionality
- **Parent/intermediate requirements** MAY be verified but it's not a hard requirement as they might be covered in verification of leaf requirements
- One verification may verify multiple leaf requirements (N:1 relationship)

### Coverage Metrics
The verification coverage system tracks:
- **Verified leaf requirements**: Leaf requirements with `verifiedBy` relations pointing to verification elements
- **Satisfied test-verifications**: Test-verification elements with `satisfiedBy` relations pointing to actual test implementations
- **Unsatisfied test-verifications**: Test-verification elements missing `satisfiedBy` relations (flagged as incomplete)
- **Coverage percentages**: Calculated separately for leaf requirements verification and test-verification satisfaction

## Two-Level Verification System

Reqvire implements a two-level verification approach:

1. **Requirements → Verifications**: Requirements link to verification elements via `verifiedBy` relations
2. **Test-Verifications → Test Implementations**: Test-verification elements link to actual test scripts/artifacts via `satisfiedBy` relations

```markdown
### My Requirement
The system shall process data within 500ms.

#### Relations
  * verifiedBy: [Performance Test](tests/PerformanceTests.md#response-time-test)

---

### Performance Test
This test verifies response time requirements.

#### Metadata
  * type: test-verification

#### Relations
  * verify: [My Requirement](Requirements.md#my-requirement)
  * satisfiedBy: [test.sh](../../tests/test-performance/test.sh)
```

### Bidirectional Traceability
Reqvire automatically maintains bidirectional relations:
- When a requirement has `verifiedBy: [Test A]`, the Test A element shows `verify: [Requirement]`
- This ensures complete traceability in both directions

## Coverage Reporting

Use Reqvire's coverage report command to:
- Identify unverified leaf requirements
- Track test-verification satisfaction status
- Generate coverage metrics and reports
- Support quality assurance and compliance activities

```bash
# Generate coverage report
reqvire coverage-report

# Generate JSON coverage report for programmatic analysis
reqvire coverage-report --json
```

The coverage system will flag:
- ✅ **Satisfied test-verifications**: Those with valid `satisfiedBy` relations to test implementations
- ❌ **Unsatisfied test-verifications**: Those missing `satisfiedBy` relations
- ✅ **Analysis/inspection/demonstration verifications**: Considered satisfied by default (no `satisfiedBy` required)

---

Commit message:

Document verification roll-up approach and leaf requirements strategy
Explain that verifying leaf requirements provides coverage for parent requirements through the traceability chain. Add preferable verification approach section highlighting efficiency and coverage completeness benefits.

docs/verifications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Verifications
---

## Conceptual Overview

In Reqvire, **verification** is the process of confirming that a system or its components meet specified **requirements**. Verification ensures that the system has been **built right**, checking whether it conforms to the defined functional and non-functional requirements at each level of system decomposition.

Verification activities are integrated into the **requirements structure**, maintaining clear **traceability** between requirements and their associated **verification methods** and **test artifacts**.

## Verification Element Types

Reqvire supports several verification element types that align with standard systems engineering verification methods:

### Primary Verification Types
- **verification** - Default verification through testing (equivalent to test-verification)
- **test-verification** - Formal testing with documented test procedures and expected outcomes
- **analysis-verification** - Verification through systematic analysis of documentation or code without physical testing
- **inspection-verification** - Verification through formal examination of documentation, code, or physical components
- **demonstration-verification** - Verification through showing functionality in an operational-like environment

### SatisfiedBy Requirements by Type
- **test-verification**: MUST have `satisfiedBy` relations pointing to actual test implementations
- **analysis-verification, inspection-verification, demonstration-verification**: Do NOT require `satisfiedBy` relations (considered satisfied by default)
- **trace relations**: Always allowed for any verification type

## Coverage Philosophy

Reqvire uses a **Verification Roll-up approach**, where verification of detailed requirements provides coverage for their parent requirements through the requirements hierarchy.

### Leaf Requirements Focus

Reqvire's verification coverage focuses on **leaf requirements** - requirements that do not have forward relations to other requirements. These represent the actual testable functionality.

**Preferable Verification Approach:**

The recommended strategy is to **verify leaf requirements** rather than intermediate or parent requirements. This approach provides several key advantages:

- **Verification Roll-up**: When leaf requirements are verified, their verification status automatically rolls up through the traceability chain to cover all parent requirements up to the root
- **Efficiency**: A single verification can verify multiple leaf requirements, providing coverage for entire requirement chains
- **Coverage Completeness**: Verifying the most detailed, specific requirements ensures that all higher-level requirements they derive from are implicitly verified
- **Clear Test Scope**: Leaf requirements represent concrete, testable functionality with well-defined acceptance criteria

**Coverage Rules:**
- **Leaf requirements** MUST be verified - these represent the actual testable functionality
- **Parent/intermediate requirements** MAY be verified but it's not necessary as they are covered through verification of their leaf requirements
- One verification may verify multiple leaf requirements (N:1 relationship), covering entire chains of parent requirements

### Coverage Metrics
The verification coverage system tracks:
- **Verified leaf requirements**: Leaf requirements with `verifiedBy` relations pointing to verification elements
- **Satisfied test-verifications**: Test-verification elements with `satisfiedBy` relations pointing to actual test implementations
- **Unsatisfied test-verifications**: Test-verification elements missing `satisfiedBy` relations (flagged as incomplete)
- **Coverage percentages**: Calculated separately for leaf requirements verification and test-verification satisfaction

## Two-Level Verification System

Reqvire implements a two-level verification approach:

1. **Requirements → Verifications**: Requirements link to verification elements via `verifiedBy` relations
2. **Test-Verifications → Test Implementations**: Test-verification elements link to actual test scripts/artifacts via `satisfiedBy` relations

```markdown
### My Requirement
The system shall process data within 500ms.

#### Relations
  * verifiedBy: [Performance Test](tests/PerformanceTests.md#response-time-test)

---

### Performance Test
This test verifies response time requirements.

#### Metadata
  * type: test-verification

#### Relations
  * verify: [My Requirement](Requirements.md#my-requirement)
  * satisfiedBy: [test.sh](../../tests/test-performance/test.sh)
```

### Bidirectional Traceability
Reqvire automatically maintains bidirectional relations:
- When a requirement has `verifiedBy: [Test A]`, the Test A element shows `verify: [Requirement]`
- This ensures complete traceability in both directions

## Coverage Reporting

Use Reqvire's coverage report command to:
- Identify unverified leaf requirements
- Track test-verification satisfaction status
- Generate coverage metrics and reports
- Support quality assurance and compliance activities

```bash
# Generate coverage report
reqvire coverage-report

# Generate JSON coverage report for programmatic analysis
reqvire coverage-report --json
```

The coverage system will flag:
- ✅ **Satisfied test-verifications**: Those with valid `satisfiedBy` relations to test implementations
- ❌ **Unsatisfied test-verifications**: Those missing `satisfiedBy` relations
- ✅ **Analysis/inspection/demonstration verifications**: Considered satisfied by default (no `satisfiedBy` required)

---
